add information about using TypeScript with layouts (#8763)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/basics/layouts.mdx

</html>
```

### Working with TypeScript

> Any astro layout can be modified to introduce typesafety & autocompletion via
> 
> ```astro ins={3} ": CustomProps"
> ---
> // src/components/MyLayout.astro
> type CustomProps = { title: string };
> const { title } : CustomProps = Astro.props.frontmatter || Astro.props;
> ---
> ```
> 
> or by overriding default Props via
> 
> ```astro ins={3} 
> ---
> // src/components/MyLayout.astro
> interface Props { title: string }
> const { title } = Astro.props;
> ---
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
Any astro layout can be modified to introduce typesafety & autocompletion by providing the types for your props:

```astro ins={2} title="src/components/MyLayout.astro"
---
interface Props { 
	title: string
}
const { title } = Astro.props;
---
```

You can override Astro's default `Props` to handle situations where your layout recieves props of different types:

```astro ": CustomProps" title="src/components/MyLayout.astro"
---
type CustomProps = { title: string };
const { title } : CustomProps = Astro.props.frontmatter || Astro.props;
---
```
``````
So here's what I was thinking...

- Showing the default using TypeScript first feels more natural, like "this is how you type your props" before a more niche/advanced case like overriding the props.
- I do like how compact the code sample is, but I think whenever I've seen this actually used in someone's project, the `interfaceProps` is all expanded. So I'm thinking maybe we show it like that? Someone might often have more than one prop, and this does help keep their code readable, too.
- each of these need some kind of actual explanation of what's happening (not just "via", which is like "like so" or "like this" and makes the reader guess which part of the next code is the part you mean). I've tried to explain with words I think make sense, but I will need someone more familiar with TypeScript terminology to verify!

Author: - that makes sense, I went autopilot with this one just being worried for the whole `Astro.props.frontmatter` issue getting addressed with high priority
- Sure, I will look into this. There are exemplar props I can/will refer from https://docs.astro.build/en/basics/layouts/#markdown-layout-props
- that helps the situation significantly 🙌 I will be `ptal`ing this to get accurate info

Reviewer: I was thinking like our example packages show the props like this:

![image](https://github.com/withastro/docs/assets/5098874/f656ebd1-c952-42ce-b190-173c530bcbe8)

</html>
```

### Working with TypeScript

Any astro layout can be modified to introduce typesafety & autocompletion by providing the types for your props:

```astro ins={2-7} title="src/components/MyLayout.astro"
---
interface Props { 
	title: string;
  description: string;

>   publishDate: Date;

Author: ```suggestion
  publishDate: string;
```

</html>
```

### Working with TypeScript

Any astro layout can be modified to introduce typesafety & autocompletion by providing the types for your props:

```astro ins={2-7} title="src/components/MyLayout.astro"
---
interface Props { 
	title: string;
  description: string;
  publishDate: Date;
  viewCount: number;
}
const { title, description, publishDate, viewCount } = Astro.props;
---
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="description" content={description}>
    <title>{title}</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <header>
      <p>Published on {publishDate}</p>
      <p>Viewed by {viewCount} folks</p>
    </header>
    <main>
      <slot />
    </main>
  </body>
</html>
```

> You can override Astro's default `Props` to handle situations where your layout recieves props of different types:

Author: ⚠️ friction alert ⚠️ `You can override ... different types` is incorrect afaik because `Props` can be defined/override to include different types as described in snippet above and I can't think of what it should be 😓
Can any experienced TypeScript developers confirm suggest a better approach? Thanks in advance ❤️

> You can override Astro's default `Props` to handle situations where your layout recieves props of different types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also create custom `Props` to handle situations where your layout receives props of different types:
```
@at-the-vr , what do you think if we just go a little more general like this? :sweat_smile:

Author: Apologies for being blunt but the whole sentence `You can override Astro's ... props of different types:` happens to be incorrect with what I know of Types and Astro handling them. The suggestion is not doing any good here honestly.

Props can be custom in Astro and that's correct, but `Astro.props.frontmatter` is very specific. I believe its mentioned in [Markdown Layout Props](<https://docs.astro.build/en/basics/layouts/#markdown-layout-props>) - Please correct me if I happen to be faulty here 😓 

So when someone attempts the following (similar to OP's Issue linked)
```js
---
// snippet from Blog Template
type Props = CollectionEntry<"blog">["data"];

const { title, description, pubDate, updatedDate, heroImage } = Astro.props.frontmatter || Astro.props;
---
```
They receive the Property `frontmatter` does not exists Error.

With respect to the Blog template this issue can be resolved by CustomProps like this:
```diff
+ type CustomProps = CollectionEntry<"blog">["data"] & {
  title: string,
  description: string,
  pubDate: Date,
  updatedDate: Date,
  heroImage: string,
}

+ const { title, description, pubDate, updatedDate, heroImage } :CustomProps = 
 Astro.props.frontmatter || Astro.props;
---
```
and that's what I want to address in that sentence

My direction: Here's a way you can avoid Property `frontmatter` does not exists error
Docs direction: Have to rely on Sarah and Team Astro for this one 🙏

> You can override Astro's default `Props` to handle situations where your layout recieves props of different types:
> 
> ```astro ": CustomProps" title="src/components/MyLayout.astro"
> ---
> type CustomProps = { 
> 	title: string;
>   description: string;
>   publishDate: Date;
>   viewCount: number;
> }
> const { title, description, publishDate, viewCount } : CustomProps = Astro.props.frontmatter || Astro.props;
> ---
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
As I mentioned in the recent (second!) issue concerning this section, I think this section that was originally provided to serve one purpose for **v1** of Astro, long before content collections, has outlived its use. 

My suggestion here is to only add the new "Using TypeScript with layouts" section, and in fact remove lines 241-260 entirely! I don't think this section is helping people (vs causing problems) and I don't think with content collections now we really do recommend this anyway.
